doc(melange): write manual (#7477)
ocaml/dune: doc/melange.rst

  ``root_module`` in the :ref:`library` stanza.

- ``(allow_overlapping_dependencies)`` is the same as the corresponding field of
  :ref:`library`.

Recommended Practices
=====================

Keep Bundles Small by Reducing the Number of ``melange.emit`` Stanzas
---------------------------------------------------------------------

It is recommended to minimize the number of ``melange.emit`` stanzas
that a project defines: using multiple ``melange.emit`` stanzas will cause
multiple copies of the JavaScript files to be generated if the same libraries
are used across them. As an example:

.. code:: dune

  (melange.emit
   (target app1)
   (libraries foo))

  (melange.emit
   (target app2)
   (libraries foo))
   
The JavaScript artifacts for library ``foo`` will be emitted twice in the 
``_build`` folder. They will be present under ``_build/default/app1``
and ``_build/default/app2``.

This can have unexpected impact on bundle size when using tools like Webpack or
Esbuild, as these tools will not be able to see shared library code as such,
as it would be replicated across the paths of the different stanzas
``target`` folders.

> Faster Builds with ``subdir`` and ``dirs`` Stanzas

Reviewer: @christinerose should the "with" be capitalised here? Further up that is the case, I guess we should be consistent but I can never remember which words get capitalised in title case.

Reviewer 2: Strangely, with is capitalized in titles in several style guides, but I double checked, and it's not capitalized in the MLA style guide, which is the one we use if something isn't defined in ours! I'll have to remember that moving forward (as I've capitalized several in reviews!) Perhaps we can pick one for our style guide. Which do you prefer in titles? Capitalized or no?

Reviewer: I think I generally prefer capitalised in title case, keeping the number of exceptions minimal. For me this is just `and` and `or`.

Author: Capitalised in https://github.com/ocaml/dune/pull/7477/commits/11d11fbb2c34486a0c63ee55099c070b9038a4f0.

  ``<modules>`` uses the :doc:`reference/ordered-set-language`, where elements
  are module names and don't need to start with an uppercase letter. For
  instance, to exclude module ``Foo``, use ``(modules :standard \ foo)``.

- ``(libraries <library-dependencies>)`` specifies Melange library dependencies.
  Melange libraries can only use the simple form, like
  ``(libraries foo pkg.bar)``. Keep in mind the following limitations:

  - The ``re_export`` form is not supported.

  - All the libraries included in ``<library-dependencies>`` have to support
    the ``melange`` mode (see the section about libraries below).

- ``(package <package>)`` allows the user to define the JavaScript package to
  which the artifacts produced by the ``melange.emit`` stanza will belong.

- ``(runtime_deps <paths-to-deps>)`` specifies dependencies that should be
  copied to the build folder together with the ``.js`` files generated from the
  sources. These runtime dependencies can include assets like CSS files, images,
  fonts, external JavaScript files, etc. ``runtime_deps`` adhere to the formats
  in :doc:`concepts/dependency-spec`. For example

>   ``(runtime_deps ./path/to/file.css (glob_file_rec ./fonts/*))``.

Reviewer 3: this should be `glob_files_rec`

Author: Thanks! Fixed in https://github.com/ocaml/dune/pull/7477/commits/5313d5f743f534f04f4d7481f1704a1a84b6bd6f.

.. _melange_main:

***********************************
JavaScript Compilation With Melange
***********************************

Introduction
------------

`Melange <https://github.com/melange-re/melange>`_ is a compiler from OCaml to

> JavaScript. Unlike js_of_ocaml, Melange works by translating OCaml compiler
> internal lambda representation to JS files. This allows to produce a single
> JavaScript file from each OCaml module. Melange can be installed with
> `opam, Esy, or Nix <https://github.com/melange-re/melange#installation>`_
> package managers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JavaScript. Unlike Js_of_ocaml, Melange works by translating OCaml compiler
internal Lambda representation to JS files. This allows to produce a single
JavaScript file from each OCaml module. Melange can be installed with
`opam, Esy, or Nix <https://github.com/melange-re/melange#installation>`_
package managers.
```

Reviewer: I think js_of_ocaml should be monospace and the lambda should be lower case since it is the textual version of the lower case lambda.

Author: @Alizter Js_of_ocaml is written like this (capital J, regular font) everywhere, I think the change you suggest could be done, but on isolation in a different PR.

> Dune can build projects using Melange, and it allows to generate JavaScript

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dune can build projects using Melange, and it allows the user to generate JavaScript
```

files by defining a :ref:`melange-emit` stanza. Dune libraries can be used

> with Melange, by leveraging the ``(modes melange)`` field in the :ref:`library`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with Melange by leveraging the ``(modes melange)`` field in the :ref:`library`
```

stanza.

To enable Melange support in a Dune project, specify the Melange language
version in the :ref:`dune-project` file. Adding

.. code:: scheme

    (using melange 0.1)

to a :ref:`dune-project` file enables using the ``melange.emit`` stanza and the
``(modes melange)`` field for the :ref:`library` stanza.

.. _melange-emit:

melange.emit
------------

> The ``melange.emit`` stanza allows to generate JavaScript from Melange libraries and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ``melange.emit`` stanza allows the user to generate JavaScript from Melange libraries and
```

    ``(module_systems commonjs (es6 mjs))`` will produce one set of JavaScript
    files using CommonJS and ``.js`` extension, and another using ES6 and
    ``.mjs`` extension.

- ``(modules <modules>)`` specifies what modules will be built with Melange. By
  default, if this field is not defined, Dune will use all the ``.ml/.re`` files
  in the same directory as the ``dune`` file. This includes module sources
  present in the file system as well as modules generated by user rules. You can
  restrict this list by using an ``(modules <modules>)`` field. ``<modules>``
  uses the :doc:`reference/ordered-set-language`, where elements are module names and
  don't need to start with an uppercase letter. For instance, to exclude module
  ``Foo``, use ``(modules (:standard \ foo))``

- ``(libraries <library-dependencies>)`` specifies Melange library dependencies.
  Melange libraries can only use the simple form, like
  ``(libraries foo pkg.bar)``. Keep in mind the following limitations:

  - The ``re_export`` and ``select`` forms are not supported.

  - All the libraries included in ``<library-dependencies>`` have to support
    ``melange`` mode (see the section about libraries below).

> - ``(package <package>)`` allows to define the JavaScript package to which the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``(package <package>)`` allows the user to define the JavaScript package to which the 
```

  These runtime dependencies can be any assets like CSS files, images, fonts,
  hand-written JavaScript files, etc. Many deps can be defined in the same
  field, and any of the available formats in the :doc:`concepts/dependency-spec`
  can be used. For example
  ``(runtime_deps ./path/to/file.css (glob_file_rec ./fonts/*))``.

- ``(emit_stdlib <bool>)`` allows the user to specify whether the Melange
  standard library should be included as a dependency of the stanza or not. The
  default is ``true``.

- ``(promote <options>)`` allows promoting the generated ``.js`` files to the
  source tree. The options are the same as for the :ref:`rule promote mode <promote>`.
  Adding ``(promote (until-clean))`` to a ``melange.emit`` stanza will cause
  Dune to copy the ``.js`` files to the source tree and use ``dune clean`` to
  delete them.

- ``(preprocess <preprocess-spec>)`` specifies how to preprocess files when
  needed. The default is ``no_preprocessing``, and other options are described
  in the :doc:`concepts/preprocessing-spec` section.

- ``(preprocessor_deps (<deps-conf list>))`` specifies extra preprocessor

>   dependencies, e.g. if the preprocessor reads a generated file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  dependencies, e.g., if the preprocessor reads a generated file.
```

  ``melc``, the Melange compiler that produces the ``.js`` artifacts.
  ``<flags>`` is described in detail in the :doc:`reference/ordered-set-language` section.
  It also supports ``(:include ...)`` forms. The default value for this field is
  taken from the environment and, as a result, it's recommended to write
  ``(compile_flags ...)`` fields as follows:
  ``(compile_flags :standard <my options>)``

- ``(root_module <module>)`` specifies a ``root_module`` that collects all
  listed dependencies in ``libraries``. See the documentation for
  ``root_module`` in the :ref:`library` stanza.

- ``(allow_overlapping_dependencies)`` is the same as the corresponding field of
  :ref:`library`.

Libraries
---------

Melange is compatible with Dune libraries that support it. When adding support
for Melange in libraries, two fields are involved:

- ``(modes melange)``: it is required to add ``melange`` to the library
  ``modes`` field.

  - If the library has no ``modes`` field defined yet, one can use the
    :doc:`reference/ordered-set-language` to do so: ``(modes :standard melange)``

  - If the library already had some value for the ``modes`` field, ``melange``

>     mode can be appended to the list of modes, e.g.:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    mode can be appended to the list of modes, for example:
```

    ``(modes byte native melange)``

- ``(melange.runtime_deps <deps>)``: optionally, define any runtime dependencies
  using ``melange.runtime_deps``. This field is analog to the ``runtime_deps``
  field used in ``melange.emit`` stanzas. An example:
  ``(melange.runtime_deps ./path/to/file.css (glob_file_rec ./fonts/*))``.

> Recommended practices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Recommended Practices
```

> .. _melange_main:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:orphan:

.. _melange_main:
```

This will ensure that sphinx knows that this document is not part of any toctree.

Author: Update in latest version of the docs.

***********************************
JavaScript Compilation With Melange
***********************************

Introduction
------------

`Melange <https://github.com/melange-re/melange>`_ is a compiler from OCaml to
JavaScript. Unlike Js_of_ocaml, Melange works by translating OCaml compiler
internal Lambda representation to JS files. This allows to produce a single
JavaScript file from each OCaml module. Melange can be installed with
`opam, Esy, or Nix <https://github.com/melange-re/melange#installation>`_
package managers.

Dune can build projects using Melange, and it allows the user to generate
JavaScript files by defining a :ref:`melange-emit` stanza. Dune libraries can be
used with Melange by leveraging the ``(modes melange)`` field in the
:ref:`library` stanza.

To enable Melange support in a Dune project, specify the Melange language
version in the :ref:`dune-project` file. Adding

> .. code:: scheme

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code:: dune
```

    (using melange 0.1)

to a :ref:`dune-project` file enables using the ``melange.emit`` stanza and the
``(modes melange)`` field for the :ref:`library` stanza.

.. _melange-emit:

melange.emit
------------

The ``melange.emit`` stanza allows the user to generate JavaScript from Melange
libraries and modules. It's similar to the OCaml :ref:`executable` stanza, but
for Melange projects:

> .. code:: scheme

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code:: dune
```

    (melange.emit
     (target <target>)
     <optional-fields>)

``<target>`` is the name of the folder where resulting JavaScript artifacts will
be placed. In particular, the folder will be placed under
``_build/default/$path-to-directory-of-melange-emit-stanza``.

The result of building a  ``melange.emit`` stanza will match the file structure
of the source tree. For example, given the following source tree:

> .. code:: bash

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code::
```

    ├── dune # (melange.emit (target output) (libraries lib))
    ├── app.ml
    └── lib
        ├── dune # (library (name lib) (modes melange))
        └── helper.ml

The resulting layout in ``_build/default/output`` will be as follows:

> .. code:: bash

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code::
```

Author: @emillon Using `bash` allows to show the comments in gray:

<img width="721" alt="imagen" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/220424/229815193-3cb4c81a-f93f-4971-b833-3207b42b7a7f.png">

vs without bash

<img width="728" alt="imagen" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/220424/229815289-555bf4bb-ba41-473c-ae07-145900a81d1b.png">

Isn't the former better?

Author: Oh, I see now the suggestion was for a block without comments 😅 Will update.

  listed dependencies in ``libraries``. See the documentation for
  ``root_module`` in the :ref:`library` stanza.

- ``(allow_overlapping_dependencies)`` is the same as the corresponding field of
  :ref:`library`.

Libraries
---------

Melange is compatible with Dune libraries that support it. When adding support
for Melange in libraries, two fields are involved:

- ``(modes melange)``: it is required to add ``melange`` to the library
  ``modes`` field.

  - If the library has no ``modes`` field defined yet, one can use the
    :doc:`reference/ordered-set-language` to do so: ``(modes :standard melange)``

  - If the library already had some value for the ``modes`` field, ``melange``
    mode can be appended to the list of modes, for example:
    ``(modes byte native melange)``

- ``(melange.runtime_deps <deps>)``: optionally, define any runtime dependencies
  using ``melange.runtime_deps``. This field is analog to the ``runtime_deps``
  field used in ``melange.emit`` stanzas. An example:
  ``(melange.runtime_deps ./path/to/file.css (glob_file_rec ./fonts/*))``.

Recommended Practices
---------------------

Keep bundles small by reducing the number of ``melange.emit`` stanzas

> =====================================================================

Reviewer 4: we're not exactly consistent with heading styles, but we use `===` to indicate larger sections than `---`. Sphinx does not care but please be consistent with the order documented [here](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html#sections)

It is recommended to define a single ``melange.emit`` stanza for each project,
or if that is not possible, at least minimize the number of ``melange.emit``
stanzas defined.

The reason is that using multiple ``melange.emit`` stanzas will lead to multiple
copies of the JavaScript files generated for library code. For example, if
there are two ``melange.emit`` stanzas defined as follows:

> .. code:: scheme

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code:: dune
```

  (melange.emit
   (target app1)
   (libraries foo))

  (melange.emit
   (target app2)
   (libraries foo))
   
The JavaScript artifacts for library ``foo`` will end up duplicated in the
``_build`` folder, both in ``_build/default/app1`` and ``_build/default/app2``.

This can have unexpected impact on bundle size when using tools like Webpack or
Esbuild, as these tools will not be able to see shared library code as such,
as it would be replicated across the paths of the different stanzas
``target`` folders.

Faster Builds with ``subdir`` and ``dirs`` Stanzas
==================================================

Melange libraries might be installed from the ``npm`` package repository,
together with other JavaScript packages. To avoid having Dune inspect
unnecessary folders in ``node_modules``, it is recommended to explicitly
include those folders that are relevant for Melange builds.

This can be accomplished by combining :ref:`subdir` and :ref:`dune-subdirs`
stanzas in a ``dune`` file and by co-locating this file together with the
``node_modules`` folder. The :ref:`dune-vendored_dirs` stanza can be used as
well to avoid warnings in Melange libraries during the application build.

> .. code:: scheme

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code:: dune
```

  (subdir
   node_modules
   (vendored_dirs reason-react)
   (dirs reason-react))

Simple Project
--------------

Let's look at building a simple project with Melange and Dune.

First, make sure that the :ref:`dune-project` file contains a
``(using melange 0.1)`` stanza:

.. code:: scheme

  (lang dune 3.8)
  (using melange 0.1)

Next, write a :ref:`dune<dune-files>` file with a :ref:`melange-emit` stanza:

> .. code:: scheme

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code:: dune
```

:orphan:

.. _melange_main:

***********************************
JavaScript Compilation With Melange
***********************************

Introduction
============

`Melange <https://github.com/melange-re/melange>`_ is a compiler from OCaml to

> JavaScript. Unlike Js_of_ocaml, Melange works by translating OCaml compiler
> internal Lambda representation to JS files. This allows to produce a single

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JavaScript. Unlike Js_of_ocaml, Melange works by translating the internal OCaml compiler
Lambda representation to JS files. This allows to produce a single
```
+ rewrap

JavaScript file from each OCaml module. Melange can be installed with
`opam, Esy, or Nix <https://github.com/melange-re/melange#installation>`_
package managers.

Dune can build projects using Melange, and it allows the user to generate
JavaScript files by defining a :ref:`melange-emit` stanza. Dune libraries can be
used with Melange by leveraging the ``(modes melange)`` field in the
:ref:`library` stanza.

To enable Melange support in a Dune project, specify the Melange language
version in the :ref:`dune-project` file. Adding

.. code:: dune

    (using melange 0.1)

> to a :ref:`dune-project` file enables using the ``melange.emit`` stanza and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to a :ref:`dune-project` file enables using the ``melange.emit`` stanza to be used and the
```

Author: I don't get this suggestion. I am referring to the ``melange.emit`` stanza in an abstract way. I will update to:

```
to a :ref:`dune-project` file enables using ``melange.emit`` stanzas and the
``(modes melange)`` field for the :ref:`library` stanza.
```

Reviewer: Sorry I meant to remove the `using` before.

Reviewer: Or alternatively `enables the use of`. To my ear, `enables using` sounds strange.

Author: I went with `enables the use of` 👍

the ``(modes melange)`` field in :ref:`library` stanzas.

.. _melange-emit:

melange.emit
============

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

.. versionadded:: 3.8
```

  present in the file system as well as modules generated by user rules. You can
  restrict this list by using an explicit ``(modules <modules>)`` field.
  ``<modules>`` uses the :doc:`reference/ordered-set-language`, where elements
  are module names and don't need to start with an uppercase letter. For
  instance, to exclude module ``Foo``, use ``(modules (:standard \ foo))``.

- ``(libraries <library-dependencies>)`` specifies Melange library dependencies.
  Melange libraries can only use the simple form, like
  ``(libraries foo pkg.bar)``. Keep in mind the following limitations:

  - The ``re_export`` and ``select`` forms are not supported.

  - All the libraries included in ``<library-dependencies>`` have to support
    ``melange`` mode (see the section about libraries below).

- ``(package <package>)`` allows the user to define the JavaScript package to
  which the artifacts produced by the ``melange.emit`` stanza will belong. This
  is useful when the ``libraries`` field includes a public library, as it helps
  making sure that the modules from the ``libraries`` and the ``modules`` fields
  that are part of the ``melange.emit`` stanza belong to the same resulting

>   JavaScript package.

Author: Added in https://github.com/ocaml/dune/pull/7477/commits/b43dfb8f9502945f6de2e6dce551353a575388c7.

- ``(runtime_deps <paths-to-deps>)`` specifies which files should be copied to
  the build folder together with the ``.js`` files generated from the sources.

>   These runtime dependencies can be any assets like CSS files, images, fonts,

Reviewer: The reason I've suggested removing `any` is that it makes it sound more exclusive IMO. AFAIU it's not just assets that can be included here.

  hand-written JavaScript files, etc. Several dependencies can be defined in the
  same field using any of the available formats in the
  :doc:`concepts/dependency-spec`. For example

>   ``(runtime_deps ./path/to/file.css (glob_file_rec ./fonts/*))``.

Author: added in https://github.com/ocaml/dune/pull/7477/commits/b43dfb8f9502945f6de2e6dce551353a575388c7

>   field, and any of the available formats in the :doc:`concepts/dependency-spec`
>   can be used. For example
>   ``(runtime_deps ./path/to/file.css (glob_file_rec ./fonts/*))``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  field using any of the available formats in the :doc:`concepts/dependency-spec`.
  For example ``(runtime_deps ./path/to/file.css (glob_file_rec ./fonts/*))``.
```

- ``(emit_stdlib <bool>)`` allows the user to specify whether the Melange
  standard library should be included as a dependency of the stanza or not. The
  default is ``true``.

> - ``(promote <options>)`` allows promoting the generated ``.js`` files to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``(promote <options>)`` promotes the generated ``.js`` files to the
```

  source tree. The options are the same as for the :ref:`rule promote mode <promote>`.
  Adding ``(promote (until-clean))`` to a ``melange.emit`` stanza will cause
  Dune to copy the ``.js`` files to the source tree and use ``dune clean`` to
  delete them.

- ``(preprocess <preprocess-spec>)`` specifies how to preprocess files when
  needed. The default is ``no_preprocessing``, and other options are described
  in the :doc:`concepts/preprocessing-spec` section.

- ``(preprocessor_deps (<deps-conf list>))`` specifies extra preprocessor
  dependencies, e.g., if the preprocessor reads a generated file.

>   Dependency specification is described in the :doc:`concepts/dependency-spec`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The dependency specification is described in the :doc:`concepts/dependency-spec`
```

  section.

- ``(compile_flags <flags>)`` specifies compilation flags to be passed to
  ``melc``, the Melange compiler that produces the ``.js`` artifacts.
  ``<flags>`` is described in detail in the
  :doc:`reference/ordered-set-language` section. It also supports
  ``(:include ...)`` forms. The default value for this field is taken from the

>   environment and, as a result, it's recommended to write

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  environment therefore it's recommended to write
```

  ``(compile_flags ...)`` fields as follows:
  ``(compile_flags :standard <my options>)``

- ``(root_module <module>)`` specifies a ``root_module`` that collects all
  listed dependencies in ``libraries``. See the documentation for
  ``root_module`` in the :ref:`library` stanza.

- ``(allow_overlapping_dependencies)`` is the same as the corresponding field of
  :ref:`library`.

Libraries
=========

Melange is compatible with Dune libraries that support it. When adding support
for Melange in libraries, two fields are involved:

- ``(modes melange)``: it is required to add ``melange`` to the library
  ``modes`` field.

  - If the library has no ``modes`` field defined yet, one can use the
    :doc:`reference/ordered-set-language` to do so: ``(modes :standard melange)``

  - If the library already had some value for the ``modes`` field, ``melange``
    mode can be appended to the list of modes, for example:
    ``(modes byte native melange)``

> - ``(melange.runtime_deps <deps>)``: optionally, define any runtime dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``(melange.runtime_deps <deps>)``: optionally define any runtime dependencies
```

  using ``melange.runtime_deps``. This field is analog to the ``runtime_deps``
  field used in ``melange.emit`` stanzas. An example:
  ``(melange.runtime_deps ./path/to/file.css (glob_file_rec ./fonts/*))``.

Recommended Practices
=====================

> Keep bundles small by reducing the number of ``melange.emit`` stanzas

Reviewer: Title case

---------------------------------------------------------------------

It is recommended to define a single ``melange.emit`` stanza for each project,
or if that is not possible, at least minimize the number of ``melange.emit``
stanzas defined.

The reason is that using multiple ``melange.emit`` stanzas will lead to multiple
copies of the JavaScript files generated for library code. For example, if
there are two ``melange.emit`` stanzas defined as follows:

.. code:: dune

  (melange.emit
   (target app1)
   (libraries foo))

  (melange.emit
   (target app2)
   (libraries foo))
   
The JavaScript artifacts for library ``foo`` will end up duplicated in the
``_build`` folder, both in ``_build/default/app1`` and ``_build/default/app2``.

This can have unexpected impact on bundle size when using tools like Webpack or
Esbuild, as these tools will not be able to see shared library code as such,
as it would be replicated across the paths of the different stanzas

> ``target`` folders.

Author: This paragraph explains the core reason why this whole section exists (it is titled "Keep Bundles Small by Reducing the Number of `melange.emit` Stanzas"). 

If we remove this paragraph, the rest of the content becomes harder to understand. So I would rather keep it, or remove the whole section / guideline.

> In the example above this wouldn't necessarily be a problem if those are 2 completely separate bundles.

The example reuses the library `foo` so I would expect to have some impact as soon as some kind of code splitting is enabled and the bundling tool tries to reuse `foo` in both apps bundles.

Faster Builds with ``subdir`` and ``dirs`` Stanzas
--------------------------------------------------

Melange libraries might be installed from the ``npm`` package repository,
together with other JavaScript packages. To avoid having Dune inspect
unnecessary folders in ``node_modules``, it is recommended to explicitly
include those folders that are relevant for Melange builds.

> This can be accomplished by combining :ref:`subdir` and :ref:`dune-subdirs`
> stanzas in a ``dune`` file and by co-locating this file together with the
> ``node_modules`` folder. The :ref:`dune-vendored_dirs` stanza can be used as
> well to avoid warnings in Melange libraries during the application build.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This can be accomplished by combining :ref:`subdir` and :ref:`dune-subdirs`
stanzas in a ``dune`` file next to the ``node_modules`` folder.  The 
:ref:`dune-vendored_dirs` stanza can be used to avoid warnings in Melange
libraries during the application build. The :ref:`dune-data_only_dirs` stanza
can be useful as well if you need to override the build rules in one of the packages.
```

.. code:: dune

  (subdir
   node_modules
   (vendored_dirs reason-react)
   (dirs reason-react))

Simple Project
==============

Let's look at building a simple project with Melange and Dune.

> First, make sure that the :ref:`dune-project` file contains a
> ``(using melange 0.1)`` stanza:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
First, make sure that the :ref:`dune-project` file specifies at least
version 3.8 of the dune language and the Melange extension is enabled:
```

.. code:: dune

  (lang dune 3.8)
  (using melange 0.1)

Next, write a :ref:`dune<dune-files>` file with a :ref:`melange-emit` stanza:

.. code:: dune

  (melange.emit
   (target output))

> Finally, add a ``.ml`` source file to build:

Reviewer 5: Could be Reason

```suggestion
Finally, add a source file to build:
```

> .. code:: bash
> 
>   echo 'Js.log "hello from melange"' > hello.ml

Reviewer 5: I prefer this style, but this suggestion is optional.

```suggestion
.. code:: ocaml
  (* hello.ml *)
  let () = Js.log "hello from melange"
```

Author: I am following the style of the jsoo docs:

https://github.com/ocaml/dune/blob/82c670eac095b305d9d0def10b7c19c0e697303e/doc/jsoo.rst#L26

> Now, run ``dune build output/hello.js``. Dune produces the following
> structure once it has finished the build:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
After running ``dune build output/hello.js``, Dune produces the following
file structure:
```

.. code::

  .
  ├── _build

>   │   └── default

Reviewer 5: this is wrong. should be `_build/default/output/hello.js`. The output dir is missing

Author: added in https://github.com/ocaml/dune/pull/7477/commits/b43dfb8f9502945f6de2e6dce551353a575388c7

  │       └── hello.js
  ├── dune
  ├── dune-project
  └── hello.ml

> The resulting ``.js`` target can now be run:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The resulting JavaScript can now be run:
```
